---
layout: default
title: v4.0
parent: Updates
---
{% include toc.md %}

## Highlights
* **Multiple display and headless display is now supported for QEMU machines.** You can configure 0 or more displays as well as 0 or more builtin terminal consoles. On macOS, a new window will be created for each display and builtin terminal. On iOS, you can create multiple windows (iPad) as well as plug in an external display or AirPlay (iPad or iPhone) and assign outputs to each window.
* **Ventura updates to Virtualization.** macOS Ventura introduces new features that is now integrated into UTM. You can now create GUI Linux VMs with EFI boot. Directory sharing now works with macOS Ventura guests. Rosetta x86_64 emulation is supported for Linux VMs on Apple Silicon. Check out [this page]({% link guides/debian.md %}) for an installation guide. Note that base M1 chip users may experience issues that will be addressed in a future update.
* **VirtFS sharing for QEMU.** This alternative directory sharing backend is supported by Linux and can have better performance. Note that macOS UID are numbered differently than Linux so you may have to run `chown` in the guest. Check out [this page]({% link guest-support/linux.md %}#virtfs) for more details.
* **Easier Windows 10/11 installation and Windows guest tools downloader.** You can now download and mount the Windows drivers and guest tools ISO image with a single click (macOS: disk icon in VM window, iOS: 3D touch context menu on home screen). Additionally, the ISO now include an "Autounattend.xml" which is recognized by the Windows 10/11 installer. When mounted to a second CD drive, the installer will install the correct drivers, bypass secure boot/TPM requirements, and launch the SPICE tools installer on first login.
* **macOS**{: .label .label-green } **Resize QEMU disk images.** In the drives settings page, you can now expand the size of the QCOW2 disk image.
* **New documentation site.** https://docs.getutm.app/ is the home of the official UTM documentation.
* **New localization.** Thanks to various community members, UTM is now translated to: Chinese (Simplified), Chinese (Traditional), Finnish, French, German, Japanese, Korean, and Spainish (Latin America)

## Notes
* **iOS 14 and macOS 11.3** are the new minimum supported systems. Please use UTM v3.x for support down to iOS 11 and macOS 11
* The configuration backend has been massively rewritten. **Please backup all VMs prior to updating as you will not be able to re-open VMs saved by UTM v4 on older versions of UTM if you decide to downgrade.**
* Since v4.0.6, the order of generated devices has changed to always create network devices first. This is to address an issue on some distributions (such as Ubuntu) where adding a device (drive, display, etc) would require re-configurating the network because the device name changed. Unfortunately, this change will cause the configuration issue to occur once more on any existing VM that is susceptible to the network issue. On Ubuntu, this will require you to modify `/etc/netplan/00-installer-config.yaml` and change the adapter name from `enp0s9` (or whatever it is currently) to `enp0s1` (which reflects the new device ordering). Other Linux distributions may require a similar change. However, after updating the guest network configuration, you should no longer have issues with networking when making device changes to the VM.

## Changelog
The full list of changes can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/utmapp/UTM/releases).
