---
layout: default
title: v4.1
parent: Updates
---
{% include toc.md %}

## Highlights
* **QEMU backend updated to v7.2.0**. Also updated usbredir (0.13.0), virglrenderer (latest commit), ANGLE (latest commit)
* **Improved renderer backend**. Lots of bug fixes and stability improvements to GPU accelerated Linux VMs (most common crashes when GPU acceleration is enabled should be gone now). New option to change the renderer backend to ANGLE Metal and limit FPS (in [Preferences]({% link preferences/macos.md %}#renderer-backend)). Switching to Metal is highly recommended.
* **iOS**{: .label .label-blue } **TrollStore build (UTM.HV.ipa) now supports JIT**. Additionally, there is now in-app settings.
* **iOS**{: .label .label-blue } **TrollStore build now supports TSO (Total Store Ordering)**. TSO is used by Rosetta on the Mac to improve x86_64 emulation on ARM64. It can now be [used on M1 iPads with QEMU]({% link settings-qemu/qemu.md %}#use-tso) to improve performance of FEX-Emu or a patched Rosetta. Note that it is recommended that TSO be disabled if you do not need to emulate x86_64 because it can reduce performance of other tasks.
* **macOS**{: .label .label-green } **AppleScript (OSA) support and CLI interface**. You can control parts of UTM through the [OSA interface]({% link advanced/scripting.md %}). Currently there is support for listing VMs as well as start/stop/suspend operations and the ability to print out the guest serial port connections. More functionality will be added in the future. A command line application is also provided in `UTM.app/Contents/MacOS/utmctl` (which you can symlink to `/usr/local/bin/utmctl` if desired) that can be used for automation tasks without needing to learn AppleScript.
* **macOS 13+**{: .label .label-green } **Menu bar extra**. You can enable the menu bar extra icon in [Preferences]({% link preferences/macos.md %}) (Cmd+,) as well as disable the dock icon. The menu bar extra provides a minimal interface to start/stop/suspend VMs and is useful when paired with [headless VMs]({% link advanced/headless.md %}) (a VM that does not have any display or terminal console installed).

## Notes
* Newly created Linux VMs will now use `virtio-gpu-gl-pci` by default. It is recommended that you change the [display card]({% link settings-qemu/devices/display.md %}#emulated-display-card) of existing QEMU backend Linux VMs to this card in order to take advantage of the improved renderer backend. This should result in improved performance in GUI rendering. Note that some applications (particularly 3D applications) may lock up or crash UTM and if you are experiencing issues, you can go back to `virtio-ramfb` or `virtio-vga`.
* **iOS**{: .label .label-blue } It is recommended that you switch to the Metal backend in [Preferences]({% link preferences/ios.md %}#renderer-backend) for better performance. However, some applications such as `glxgears` will not work with the Metal backend.

## Changelog
The full list of changes can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/utmapp/UTM/releases).
