---
layout: default
title: v4.3
parent: Updates
---
{% include toc.md %}

## Highlights
* **QEMU backend updated to v8.0.2**
* **Rewrite of QEMU support internals.** Much of the code to support QEMU has been refactored into a new project, [QEMUKit](https://github.com/utmapp/QEMUKit), which will make it easier to support QEMU changes as well as support for new platforms.
* **TPM 2.0 and Secure Boot** This is required for Windows 11 updates to 22H2. To enable TPM on an existing virtual machine (only x86_64, i386, and ARM64 architectures are supported), open the VM settings, go to the QEMU page and select "UEFI Boot", "TPM 2.0 Device", and "Reset UEFI Variables." Any new VM created through the wizard will have TPM 2.0 and Secure Boot enabled by default if Windows 10+ support is checked.
* **Download Windows installer with a new utility.** We know that creating a Windows installer can be a hassle which is why we are releasing a new free tool called CrystalFetch which can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/TuringSoftware/CrystalFetch) as well as free on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/crystalfetch-iso-downloader/id6454431289). This companion to UTM will allow you to generate a Windows 11 ISO with a few clicks (no Terminal, Homebrew, or scripts required). Note that just like before, you still need a valid license from Microsoft to use Windows.

## Notes
On i386 and x86_64 machines, HPET is now disabled by default. This improves performance (slightly) on some guests and also addresses boot issues with OpenIndiana. This change means that suspended VM state from previous versions are not compatible, so please shut down those VMs before updating. If you require HPET to be enabled for any reason, go into the VM's settings and under QEMU → QEMU Machine Properties, add the text `hpet=on`.

## Changelog
The full list of changes can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/utmapp/UTM/releases).
